when a professor or a teacher or a
faculty member begins to think about
putting their classes online that they
take it slow at first keep it simple
if you will don't try to create an
entire class online but take one of your
conventional classes and begin
segmenting that class into blocks or
modules and identify certain modules
that are more easily translated into an
online format and make that translation
first and then when you're teaching the
class in a conventional format give the
students the option or you might even
require that they take it in an online
rather than a conventional real time
format so that you can work out bugs you
can learn the things that are that
you're more comfortable with in terms of
the different technologies and teaching
strategies that are available for use
online and you're not overwhelmed with
this this burden of having to take a
fifteen week class and compress it into
an online kind of a format which is a
daunting task if you look at it in that
full kind of an aspect so first keep it
simple don't try too much at any given
time secondly I recommend that that you
include as much substance in your online
class as you do in your conventional
class but not more one of the first
problems that I experienced when I began
developing online modules is that I had
this vision that someone was going to be
looking over my shoulder and measuring
what I'm having my students do that kind
of concern rarely occurs in a
conventional class because I have the
students for the three hours or the hour
and a half or whatever the time period
is and my colleagues are off doing
something else but if this is going to
be broadcast online the president of the
university can watch it and see what I'm
doing and so there was an initial
tendency for me to overload the class
with assignments to overload the class
with with requirements so that this
person looking over my show
could see that this is a rigorous class
and that the students are actually
having to go through an awful lot of
work to be able to complete the the the
semester I had my students who were
doing this come to me and they said dr.
Longmire this isn't fair I have students
who are taking your class and are in a
conventional format and they are not
having to do near the amount of
additional work that we're having to do
and I listen to them and I studied what
I was having them do and I began to
modify and literally had to cut material
and assignments out of the online format
because it was burdensome to the
students it didn't include or increase
any of the substantive rigor of the
class but for that casual observer
looking over my shoulder those
assignments seemed or appeared to
require more and they did require more
but in the words of the students it was
more busy work and not work that was
really contributing to their overall
understanding of the material and
demonstrating their ability to
effectively use the material which is
what I was hoping for them to be able to
do so keep it simple don't overload the
class with a lot of busy work because
you'll lose students and you lose
students in droves when you have a lot
of assignments that are really not
directly connected to your learning
objectives and to the overall goals of
the class and so always keep in mind if
there is someone looking over your
shoulder that someone should be thinking
substance not process when they're
looking at your class